README.md, before:

<h3 align="center">
    <img alt="Logo" src="./public/sprout.svg" width="100">
    <br/>
    <font color="#b4d8bb" size="6em">Sprout</font>
</h3>

<p align="center">
    <u>The</u> low-code platform for learning game development.
    <br/><br/>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://wakapi.dev/api/compat/shields/v1/Developer-Mike/interval:all_time/project:sprout&label=Time%20Spent&style=for-the-badge&colorA=191f19&colorB=b4d8bb" alt="Time Spent"></a>
    <a href="./LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=License&message=MPL-2.0&style=for-the-badge&colorA=191f19&colorB=b4d8bb" alt="MPL-2.0 license"/></a>
</p>

## 🚀 Running the project
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Developer-Mike/sprout.git
```
2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm i
```
3. Run the application
```bash
npm run dev
```

## ✨ Roadmap
- [x] Create the project
- [x] Decide the style and design of the project
- [x] Implement the basic UI using Next.js and SCSS
- [x] Design the basic structure of the project data
- [x] Make it work with fixed data and JavaScript
- [x] Add support for sprites
- [x] Implement game objects pane
  - [x] Add game object settings
  - [x] Don't allow adding objects with the same id
  - [x] Allow reordering of the objects
  - [x] Confirm deletion of objects
- [x] Add keyboard shortcuts
- [x] Make the code editor work with JavaScript
- [x] Load and save the project data
  - [x] Detect unsaved project and prevent closing the tab if the data is not saved
  - [x] Automatically save the project data
    - [x] Add save history
    - [x] Make the history less detailed
  - [x] Add loading progress bar
- [x] Add projects overview (list of projects)
- [x] Sprites Tab
  - [x] Add the ability to reorder sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to change the active sprite
  - [x] Add the ability to delete sprites
- [x] Add sprites library dialog
  - [x] Add the ability to upload sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to delete sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to rename sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to assign sprites to game objects
  - [x] Add sprite information
- [x] Only add LabeledNumberInput change to history after the user stops dragging
- [x] Add undo/redo to the navbar
- [x] Always save project before rerouting
- [-] Create the programming language for Sprout
  - [x] Remove the usage of large strings and eval in the SproutEngine
  - [x] Create programming language concepts
    - [x] Variables
    - [x] Functions
    - [x] Loops (for, while)
    - [x] Conditions (if, else)
    - [x] Comments
  - [x] Create Lexer (Code -> Tokens)
  - [-] Create Parser (Tokens -> AST)
    - [x] Add support for mutable variables
    - [x] Add support for if, while, for and on statements
    - [x] Add support for await expressions
    - [x] Add support for lists
    - [ ] Fix return statements nested inside if statements not working
    - [ ] (If time allows) Add support for objects
    - [x] (If time allows) Add support for +=, -=, *=, /= operators
    - [ ] (If time allows) Add support for unary operators (!bool, -var, +var, ++, --)
  - [x] Create AST compiler function (AST -> JavaScript)
  - [x] Create error handling (Compilation & Runtime)
  - [x] Show errors in the code editor
  - [x] Fix the syntax highlighting and linting (Only basic syntax highlighting)
  - [x] Fix execution of the code
  - [ ] Add implemented functions to the language
    - [ ] range
    - [ ] Expose math functions
  - [ ] Add implemented functions to the engine
    - [ ] move, rotate (Handle frame_time)
    - [ ] rotate_to
    - [ ] collides_with, collides_with_box, collides_with_mouse
    - [ ] sleep
  - [ ] Add console view
  - [ ] (If time allows) Add autocomplete for some objects (e.g. game_objects, sprites)
  - [ ] (If time allows) Add advanced explanations to error messages
- [-] Miscellaneous
  - [x] Add a clean way to handle debug information
  - [x] Rework game object scaling (width and factor for height) -> Fix different scaling for different sprites
    - [x] Add width and height info to the sprites in the sprites library
  - [ ] Solve all TODOs
  - [x] Remove all DEBUGs
  - [x] Fix canvas can be right-clicked
  - [x] Disable the ability to select game objects through the canvas if th game is running
- [ ] Create some example games
  - [ ] Add the ability to add information text to the documentation sidebar
- [x] Add warning if not using Chrome
- [x] Bugfixes
  - [x] Add absolute identifiers to project paths -> Fix project with same filename not visible in the projects overview
  - [x] Fix rotation of game objects causing other game objects to move
  - [x] Fix deletion of all game objects causing null value of selected object key
- [ ] (If time allows) Add the ability to add plugins (keep in mind: security risk)
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to duplicate game objects
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to export and import game objects individually
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add export of the games to standalone websites
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to add sounds and music
- [ ] (Out of scope) Create tool for simple image editing of sprites
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add tooltips
  - [ ] Unsaved changes
  - [ ] Game object properties
  - [ ] Add game object button
  - [ ] Vertical tab buttons

Commit message:

Fixed lexer bug where an empty string wasn't parsed correctly. Added support for member expressions with square brackets (Support for list index access). Fixed order of AST parsing for assignment of a member expression.

README.md, after:

<h3 align="center">
    <img alt="Logo" src="./public/sprout.svg" width="100">
    <br/>
    <font color="#b4d8bb" size="6em">Sprout</font>
</h3>

<p align="center">
    <u>The</u> low-code platform for learning game development.
    <br/><br/>
    <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://wakapi.dev/api/compat/shields/v1/Developer-Mike/interval:all_time/project:sprout&label=Time%20Spent&style=for-the-badge&colorA=191f19&colorB=b4d8bb" alt="Time Spent"></a>
    <a href="./LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=License&message=MPL-2.0&style=for-the-badge&colorA=191f19&colorB=b4d8bb" alt="MPL-2.0 license"/></a>
</p>

## 🚀 Running the project
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Developer-Mike/sprout.git
```
2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm i
```
3. Run the application
```bash
npm run dev
```

## ✨ Roadmap
- [x] Create the project
- [x] Decide the style and design of the project
- [x] Implement the basic UI using Next.js and SCSS
- [x] Design the basic structure of the project data
- [x] Make it work with fixed data and JavaScript
- [x] Add support for sprites
- [x] Implement game objects pane
  - [x] Add game object settings
  - [x] Don't allow adding objects with the same id
  - [x] Allow reordering of the objects
  - [x] Confirm deletion of objects
- [x] Add keyboard shortcuts
- [x] Make the code editor work with JavaScript
- [x] Load and save the project data
  - [x] Detect unsaved project and prevent closing the tab if the data is not saved
  - [x] Automatically save the project data
    - [x] Add save history
    - [x] Make the history less detailed
  - [x] Add loading progress bar
- [x] Add projects overview (list of projects)
- [x] Sprites Tab
  - [x] Add the ability to reorder sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to change the active sprite
  - [x] Add the ability to delete sprites
- [x] Add sprites library dialog
  - [x] Add the ability to upload sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to delete sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to rename sprites
  - [x] Add the ability to assign sprites to game objects
  - [x] Add sprite information
- [x] Only add LabeledNumberInput change to history after the user stops dragging
- [x] Add undo/redo to the navbar
- [x] Always save project before rerouting
- [-] Create the programming language for Sprout
  - [x] Remove the usage of large strings and eval in the SproutEngine
  - [x] Create programming language concepts
    - [x] Variables
    - [x] Functions
    - [x] Loops (for, while)
    - [x] Conditions (if, else)
    - [x] Comments
  - [x] Create Lexer (Code -> Tokens)
  - [-] Create Parser (Tokens -> AST)
    - [x] Add support for mutable variables
    - [x] Add support for if, while, for and on statements
    - [x] Add support for await expressions
    - [x] Add support for lists
    - [x] Add support for index access (and square brackets access in general)
    - [ ] Fix return statements nested inside if statements not working
    - [ ] (If time allows) Add support for objects
    - [x] (If time allows) Add support for +=, -=, *=, /= operators
    - [ ] (If time allows) Add support for unary operators (!bool, -var, +var, ++, --)
  - [x] Create AST compiler function (AST -> JavaScript)
  - [x] Create error handling (Compilation & Runtime)
  - [x] Show errors in the code editor
  - [x] Fix the syntax highlighting and linting (Only basic syntax highlighting)
  - [x] Fix execution of the code
  - [ ] Add implemented functions to the language
    - [ ] range
    - [ ] Expose math functions
  - [ ] Add implemented functions to the engine
    - [ ] move, rotate (Handle frame_time)
    - [ ] rotate_to
    - [ ] collides_with, collides_with_box, collides_with_mouse
    - [ ] sleep
  - [ ] Add console view
  - [ ] (If time allows) Add autocomplete for some objects (e.g. game_objects, sprites)
  - [ ] (If time allows) Add advanced explanations to error messages
- [-] Miscellaneous
  - [x] Add a clean way to handle debug information
  - [x] Rework game object scaling (width and factor for height) -> Fix different scaling for different sprites
    - [x] Add width and height info to the sprites in the sprites library
  - [ ] Solve all TODOs
  - [x] Remove all DEBUGs
  - [x] Fix canvas can be right-clicked
  - [x] Disable the ability to select game objects through the canvas if th game is running
- [ ] Create some example games
  - [ ] Add the ability to add information text to the documentation sidebar
- [x] Add warning if not using Chrome
- [x] Bugfixes
  - [x] Add absolute identifiers to project paths -> Fix project with same filename not visible in the projects overview
  - [x] Fix rotation of game objects causing other game objects to move
  - [x] Fix deletion of all game objects causing null value of selected object key
- [ ] (If time allows) Add the ability to add plugins (keep in mind: security risk)
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to duplicate game objects
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to export and import game objects individually
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add export of the games to standalone websites
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add the ability to add sounds and music
- [ ] (Out of scope) Create tool for simple image editing of sprites
- [ ] (Out of scope) Add tooltips
  - [ ] Unsaved changes
  - [ ] Game object properties
  - [ ] Add game object button
  - [ ] Vertical tab buttons
